What is Poweradmin?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Poweradmin is a non-commercial front-end for the PowerDNS nameserver,
see <http://www.powerdns.com>. The goal of Poweradmin is to provide a
friendly management interface to the database backend of PowerDNS
which actually holds the DNS records. At this moment, both the mysql
and pgsql are supported. The interface allows add, modify and deletion
of both forward and reverse zones and has full IPv6 support.

Poweradmin is written by Roeland Nieuwenhuis <trancer@trancer.nl>
and Sjeemz <sjeemz@sjeemz.nl>. It contains patches of Wim Moistry and
Dennis Roos.

Please see CHANGES for a list of changes, CHANGES.pre-1.3.0 for a list
of changes prior to 1.3.0 release, README.i18n for information on the
multi language support, README.sequence for information the "sequence
updater" and the insertion of records and zones using other interfaces
than poweradmin.


Where to get Poweradmin?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Poweradmin website can be found at <http://www.poweradmin.org>.


Requirements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

- PowerDNS, versions 2.1 through 2.9.19 have been tested, others might
  work as well. See <http://www.powerdns.com>.

- MySQL or PostgreSQL. Both MySQL versions 4 and 5 have been reported
  to work, 5.0.22 has been tested.
  
- A webserver that support PHP 4 or 5. Apache 2.0.55 has been tested.

- PHP. At least version 4.2.1. Version 5.1.2 has been tested. It needs
  the mysql or pgsql extension, as well has PEAR. 

- PEAR::MDB2 (2.4.0 has been tested) and PEAR::MDB2_Driver_mysql
  (1.4.0 has been tested) or PEAR::MDB2_Driver_pgsql.


Installing
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Upgrading? See section "Upgrading". 

- Install PowerDNS with a mysql or pgsql backend.

- Install MDB2 and MDB2_Driver_mysql (or pgsql equivalent) packages of
  PEAR. You can install PEAR on a Debian-based server by installing
  the package php-pear. Make sure php-cli can access the mysql module
  (uncomment the line "extension=mysql.so" in /etc/php5/cli/php.ini).
  The addional PEAR packages can be installed using the "pear install"
  command (e.g. "pear install MDB2 ; pear install MDB2_Driver_mysql").

- Add a SQL user for poweradmin that is granted SELECT, INSERT,
  DELETE, UPDATE and CREATE actions.

- Untar and gunzip the poweradmin package in your web dir. This will
  create a directory "poweradmin-VERSION", we will refer to this
  directory as "poweradmin/".

- In the 'poweradmin/inc" directory the file "config-me.inc.php".
  Edit this file to suit your environment. Then rename this file to
  config.inc.php to be able to load the site. The website will not
  work properly without a config, so pay attention to your config!

- Next, go to <http://yourserver/poweradmin/install.php>

- Fill in the required information to make an administrator login for
  your PowerAdmin. If all goes well, the user is added, and you can
  log in using that username. Do not forget to remove install.php from
  the webdir!

- Finaly, run <http://yourserver/poweradmin/test_setup.php> to see if
  everything is setup correctly. This test also includes the
  functionality testing of your PowerDNS records (whether you
  have read/write access or not).


Upgrading from 1.2.7-patched
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

If you are upgrading from 1.2.7-patched, there is not much you need to
do. The only thing that is needed is install PEAR packages MDB2 and
MDB2_Driver_mysql (or MDB2_Driver_pgsql). This can be done by running
the commands "pear install MDB2 ; pear install MDB2_Driver_mysql".
Make sure php-cli can access the mysql extension by uncommenting the
line "extension=mysql.so" in /etc/php5/cli/php.ini


User levels explained
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

[x] = yes   [ ] = no

User    Permission to   Permission to  Permission to    Permission to
Level   change own      change other   create domains   add/modify
        domain(s)       domain(s)                       users

 1           [x]             [ ]            [ ]              [ ]
 5           [x]             [x]            [x]              [ ]
 10          [x]             [x]            [x]              [x]


